2/26/2019

Destroy motivation: 
    Honesty: dishonesty hyopcrisy and unfairness
    Changing Goals: discourge vauge impossibel and constantly changing goals
    Unnecessry rules, policies and work barriers: remove arbitrary barriers
    Constant Competition: encourage more collaborations among team members. 
    Negative feedback: replace negative feedback with gap-focused feedback

Effective Praise: 
Praise abilities: 
    fixed mindset.
    limit yourself to your capabilities
Praise Efforts: 
    The growth orientied mindset
    seek more chances to desmonstrate capabilities
How are managers with fixed mindset different from those with growth orientied mindset?
    
managers A & B (Pg. 127 Kertzberg)
    Manager A: view of people so that they are effort adverse, will advoide work 
    Manager B: Peoplea are fundamentally interested in the work if they can participate, engage in it and make descisions


2/28/2019

Biased evaluations: 
    hurts motivation when not in favor, can hurt if in favor too i suppose
    TODO: ASSIGNED READING FROM HARVARD BUSINESS REVIEW && ADD TO REPO

motivation in the right way
    have you received a compliment that actually offended you <- TODO: ADD EXAMPLE
    shape the condidtion for the motivation, instead of to say what we are going to do to motivate employees. create enviroment for leaders to have better conversations in motivating employees?
    large majority do not feel motivated by leaders at work, 
        aprox 21% do feel motivated by their leaders at work. 
    
misapplied motivations
    Drive-by Praise: 
        "hey great job this morning at the pipeline interview" -very casual, not heartfelt or personal. Don't feel importance of recognition
    Makeing stuff up
        "just so you know, I was telling the big boss and his team this morning what an amazing job you are doing" 
    Guilt Gratitude
        "can we all give jennifer a round of applause for that killer presentation she pulled together?"
Alternatives to misapplied motivations
    Ask for story
        "that was amazing, tell me how you did it?" -means to the end, this way focuses on means, which will result in greater long term motivation (growth model), look at efforts, not results
    Contexutalize Gratitude
        Explain how the effors contribute to a broader change for the company
    Acknowledge the cost:
        Acknowledging the challneges employees have faced. -Again recognizing the efforts, not results. 


Motivating Language: 
What is motivating language?
    language to encourage people to do things. 
Motivating language theory: 
    -ref HARVARD BUSINESS REVIEW article! 
    employees motivations are derrived from leaders social performance. 
    The motivating language in the strategic leaders speech is associated with jobs satisfaction, performance, retention, and innovation. 

    3 elements to Motivating language theory
        direction giving speech: 
            Reduce uncertainty
            goal setting, vision sharing, and objective managing. 
        Empathetic speech  
            SHows compassion and humanistic respect
            a congratulation on a task and validation of negative emotions. 
        Meaning Marketing: 
            Clarification of cultural norms
            in symbolic ways (eg. success stories)
Making ML Effective
    leaders must walk the talk
    all 3 forms of ML elements should be used and presented and diff times, mix them up and blend
    ML can only affect outcomes that are relevant to leader-employee speech
Motivating language measurement skills
    Direction giving or uncertainty
        provides me with easily understandable instructions about my work
        leader gives me useful explanations of what needs to be done in my work
    Empathetic: 
        Shows me encouragement for my work efforts
        praise professional work
    Meaning making: 
        Leader tells me success stories about those rewarded by the company or those that have left. 
        offers advice about how to behave at companies social gatherings. 

BEGIN PROJECT 2: https://wtclass.wtamu.edu/webapps/blackboard/content/listContent.jsp?course_id=_29046_1&content_id=_1198696_1